First a glossary of unique TingOs terms, sort of the rules of this game:

TingOs is a virtual machine execution environment.  The machines are called TOSS files (conceptually analagous to 
Atari or Nintendo Gameboy game cartridges, which is selected for its cuteness, fun, and tie-in with a gaming console aesthetic.  This is also a serious Business Processing Management tool.  ("Serious" is relative.) 

On the web surface, TingOs provides user auth and state tracking features for the virtual machines (known as TOSS files and also "carts" or "cartridges").  On the more general community front, TingOs provides a gaming engine deploymenmt runtime, ported to various platforms (from micropython with 320x240 color screens, LILYGO T-Decks with keyboards, to web, CLI TUI and REST or WS api access only.) Importantly, we are delighted to see Tulip CC exists and the base design is everything built in there (seen here: https://github.com/shorepine/tulipcc). We don't want to reinvent its MIDI and other UI features.  We will abstract our system away from locking us in to Tulip codebase, so in the future we may move beyond relying on this codebase.  Other apps of the 4 additional ones listed below, will mostly leverage the TingOs platform for vital needs--for example, the design lifecycle of carts is presented to users via blu-prince.com (where we host our DESIGN TOOL, like a modern and EASIER saort of Visual Basic for websockets and IOT gaming, and declarative, not procedural, with convention over configuration to maximize default design bliss--e.g., things are auto-centered by the default layout managers, nobody ever has to learn CSS or customize styles if the default layouts, text weights and scrollable presentations for collections, are employed by engine as sensible defaults). Carts can be discovered and executed without a user knowing about this design tool--they just need to log in to tingos.org (or thingos.org or tng.li, or a participating client application) and they will have access to all global (e.g., Calculator accessory), and their own user-owned carts.  The UX will take cues from physical gaming consoles--perhaps a physical handheld gaming device metaphor refers to a cartridge slot--maybe it flips to a backside for configuring states "under the hood"--so the user feels like they are interacting with a well built handheld gaming console.  Like Mattel electronics Football II, flip to rear to see battery compartment, 9 volt batterty connector wires, but FSM config--I remember how Apple Mac Control Panel desk accessory was hacked by Silicon Graphics or someone, showing meticulously drawn bitmap of exposed "wires" -- that's the ethos and that's the spirit!  Create a sense of coolness and leetness/hackery.   But it's also for business!  Just like the earlyu Apple computers were fun but also seriously powerful.

2. Blu-prince.com design and audition carts for addition to TingOs, 
Blu-prince.com is the professionally built, polished design tool which is so versatile for visual and functional app design, it will change the way people build apps and games.  The secret to its success is its buttery smooth FSM design experience, which is so cleverly woven into the way you design specifications for a cartridge that you won't care that you're learning about design patterns, UML and best practices.  Soon it will just make sense that a screen is a state and it has prebuilt (like primnitive type) components () as well as groupings of the same, which are its custom components.  One of these is Sprite.  Others are ThreeJs geometry instances. These can be persisted in XYZ in PostGIS.  Imagine how coolk it will be to start querying for nearby objects--maybe like Minecraft and Blender but for a new type of design tool.  Unlike Visual Basic or Intellij, this tool is meant to minimize all user clicks, scripting or configuration, employing a convention over configuration approach to all styling and layout decisions in a cart.  We will implement layers, grouping, selection, etc. But the user must never feel overwhelmed.  These concepts must be hidden to the extent possible,  The user's mental model is kept clean.  Things.  Not code.  Constraints.  Manipulated, edited, renamed, on-screen,  Not in lines of code. 

In fact, it is a NO CODE environment where LLMs can optionally be employed to try to interpret user requests and try to offer suggested actions or feature implementation strategies and safely audition them with the user before committing them.  If the semantics and constraints are well enough conceived, and chosen and understood by the LLM, then there is no reason it can't write the apps for the user. Uniquely, the generated TOSS archive (a gzipped payload defining all that is unique, but nothing more, about a cart) can contain detailed recorded interactions and assertions about the proper expected behavior--this unique approach to specs will guarantee that expected behaviors are honored before persisting them to the Ting gaming/execution platform--and all without requiring a user to know the dsl or coding frameworks used for testing. 

I suspect it's mathematically possible by carefully managing the version of gaming engines employed for executing any given TOSS files--maintaining backward compat for old carts, and devising a virtual machine and cart spec which are guaranteed to behave deterministically, even if their behavior may be wild and varied. I believe you can help me design a TOSS schema and TOSS "compiler" used in Blu-prince.com or tingos.org to guarantee no surprises (outside of network errors) when executing the carts.  And those errors should be gracefully handled.  Stability and the experience and perception of stability anbd predictablility, are utmost design concerns.

So Blu-prince.com must securely access tingos.org or tng.li (perhaps interchangeably) in order to retrieve and interact with carts.  Carts themselves (with TOSS data) must be managed like JIRA issues (in the sense that they may be "Design Work In Progress" or "Deployed" with a current version (as a superstate of WIP and Complete, a cart can have old versions executing and also be a work in progress in Blu-prince by a specific owner, for the newer upcoming versions) and we should be able to see which user sessions are currently involved executing a given cart, which users are connected to their ws channel, etc)

3.domain: "https://unwanted.ad" : An auction site to sell your "misfit toys" and other unwanted items.  Regifting on steroids.  will load one specific TingOs "cart" (cartridge) per ad listing.  The shopping cart should become another template in Blu-prince.com.  A built-in component, not coded in unwanted.ad, it is as simple as enabling the  product for sale--at which point its Stripe listing would be activated.  The "unwanted.ad" domain is privileged to access tingos.org, tng.li and thingos.org.  Such a cartridge utilizes a templating feature where details for each listing may differ but all carts using the ShoppingCart component are able to publish auction listings (like WANT ADS, but for items no longer wanted, so the branding is "UNWANTED.AD" and a tng.li id and unwanted.ad url can both point to the same logical endpoints--however, unwanted.ad is constrained to see only the tngli id content OWNED BY the unwanteds.ad's admins (of which there will be four admins initially: Brett, Angie, Evan and Amy)     However, the idea is that eventually unwanted.ad ads are maintained and published by END USERS who register their accounts and pay for our services via their TingOs profile.

4. "artsy.sale"  Much like unwanted.ad, except branded for art dealers.  More artsy.  Like unwanted.ad, auction owners would access the design tool in Blu-print.com.  For both unwanted.ad and artsy.sale, there should be an api for publishing the ads to TingOs ad management. TingOs should support the concept of affiliate linking.  We need to allow for conventional way to add a value (such as Amazon affiliate links, or others) without polluting any spec where it isn't applicable.  Therefore, let the schema allow for non-inclusion of unecessary fields.  Similar to how FreeBSD defaults only require users to think about exceptions to the defaults (at least that's my understanding) let's apply that minimalism to our entire design.

5. "coins.rip" Lastly, I own coins.rip domain and I want to design a cartridge for identifying favorite crypto coins.  The site would allow users to design "Swing Trades", like a simplified, dumbed down spreadsheet (really a sortable tabular display) allowing one to see their favorite or best performing or discover new up and coming coins.  This site should be fun to use and fun to build and maintain.  It should not presume to execute crypto transactions but a forthcoming sister site (coinsmith.pro, which I own) could be discussed and planned for future, where users could potentially build on the strategies discovered on coins.rip and perhaps collaborate with other users in real time to discuss, execute, and graph trades and coin performance in real time.  Svelte 5 and TingOs collaboration features should work great for this.  

I have platform code for micropython and detailed specs and plans for that problem space (the game engine) 
My main concern is getting it all to you in a format that helps us pop out MVPs for all domains in a logical order and green lighted by real tests as early as possible. 

1. tingos platform (aliased by thingos.org and tng.li) currently lives in my thingos repl on Replit.com. It is a sort of 
BPM tool or FSM host, where tngli ids (tng.li is a link to a thing or ting id and we own the tng.li domain for tiny IOT thing linking by QR codes). 

 blu-prince.com (the second site of 5) will be the GUI admin app allowing professional design of the TOSS files (*.toss, a gzipped archive or JSON payload combining the contents of the TOSS file tree into a REST or secure websockets payload to store as a JSONB document in our database.  RTequests to tng.li?id-{UUID_HERE}&{USER_ID plus headers, etc} shouyld bring up the machine in it's currently persisted state.  (Like the thingos repl loads a stoplight or lightbulb state model--we will now think of these as carts.)  More details on Blu-prince design tool follows below. 
For TingOs platform the main purpose of communicating with tingOs is to inform and move a state machine forward or backward through all its possible "motions", i.e., run it.  Whereas, Blu-prince.com is where we will design and build it. Literally, building should be like compiling where even if user made all valid choices for values--there may be semantics to test before persisting it--somehow make sure it has all required parts filled in, and can "DO SOMETHING" such as route between 2 main views (lightbulb TOSS file could specify two views, one for ON and one for OFF, with style section and sprites section, and components are either prebuilt builtin named comnponents, or "groups" (like in drawing porogram) where items on the same layer can be grouped, thereby affording them the option to have a statemachine backing the group.  The group is itself a Thing, having its own uuid as a selectable thing.  So if someone navigates to the path of a Thing on a certain layer of a TOSS file, they are selecting that thing in the design view.  If someone wants this sort of conventional navigation with TOSS paths at runtime, that would have to be anabled in a property panel for said Thing.



tingos platform (aliased by thingos.org and tng.li)
TingOs is designed to manage and execute cartridges (honoring our schema) against user sessions tied to the same cartridges(aka "carts", inspired by Atari or Nintendo Gameboy cartridges, they are conceptually all the ingredients required to run an FSM specified in their TOSS file--the TOSS file payload is our custom spec for the cartridge, including Harel statechart design semantics coupled with a separate section for minimally required UI elements and styles.)  These cartridges encapsulate a VERY deterministic UI, backed by a state machine, where some of its states qualify as "screens", "components" (predefined builtins in engine, plus groups in blu-print), "actions" (with editable names, snake_case), "guard conditions" (with editable names), "transitions" (with editable names) and some elements are purely static displays--think of this as a dumbed down, simplified form of Python Textual where the capabilities of a game are defined per each character, and how these multiple actors in the Scene interact is down to their declarative fields, which include musical (MIDI) tone events, motion animation (transforms), physics calculations, etc.  The elements themnselves are like spreadsheet cells.  We might want to use Pandas dataframes in the Blu-prince back end to really standardize how we process or filter these in memory. But on the front end (Blu-prince UI) the nodes are visual or functional, belong in the States view or the UI design view and Run view. 

Picture this:
tingos.org is the platform that my current 'thingos' repl (which is currently hosted at the longer url, "thingos.org") will becomes.  Its shorter url variants, tng.li and tingos.org, will also honor API contracts for firing events and accessing Ting's object states--which themselves are managed in python-statemachine and pydantic validated and Postgres or PostGIS backed tables we have already designed in thingos, to some extent.  The tngli ids (pronounced "tingly" ids, when navigated, ALWAYS have some configured behavior on entry--clickable/tappable/selectable QR code emojis allow sharing/scanning this tngli "thing"'s QR code with a camera inorder to quickly navigate toa user-facing HOME STATE UI in the specified cartridge or a selected subitem of a cartridge (thing id) in question (like a game save state, which also re-entry into the running machine), using a path system we will define.  If inspired by directory layout conventions, then we may be able to devise a way to declaratively build up files inside a tree by convention, instead of adding everything to a single TOSS text file).  Ergo, let TOSS spec call for a zipped directory of conventional source files.  These can be conglomerated into a single JSON request for persistence, but the user can "port" them around on a sd card uncompressed.  If these can also be gzip compressed on transport this may also be a small win.  

Think of layers of objects in a drawing or modeling program such as Blender.  Blu-print-drivenm specs govern how TingOs manages the states of these items, and its game engine returns data in layers but only cares about data details which were filled in using blu-prince.com's design tools, as well as the current execution state for a tngli id + user session.  Blu-prince allows editing the TOSS file so it works, and will not persist a TOSS file that is invalid.  The way TingOs gaming engine works is that if you can build the TOSS file, TingOs can run it predictably and with ZERO failures. 
A TOSS file is like an open version of EPUB format, because it could be used for books, animations (think stop motion or claymation), even mp4, svg content and bitmaps can be leveraged from a TOSS file.  But a key architectural consideration is that TOSS files, in order to run on small devices, CANNOT EMBED sound or video data that is binary--it must point to external URLs for any media that is not algorithmic in nature.  (But textures generated mathematically, and icons and small textually defined colorful sprites are fair game.) 

DESCRIPTION: A Gaming API and Business Event Processing Platform
Domains: thingos.org is Ting's current home.  Aliases will include tingos.org (which may become the actual corporate identity and product brand name.  Lose the 'H' but catch typos by automatically redirecting fromn thingos.org to tingos.org; also tng.li is a short form, for compact urls and qr codes.)
